Title: ca regs
----
Tags: continuous_assessment
----
Date: 20-06-13
----

Description: regulations for ca

----
Session: Semester 6 (2014)
----

Text: 
Continuous Assessment (CA) is a key component of many modules. Each piece of CA targets a particular sub-set (or perhaps all) of the learning outcomes as listed in the module descriptor (or syllabus). Therefore should you miss a CA then you are not being properly assessed on all the learning outcomes and therefore jeopardise your chances of passing the module.

Note however that these are general guidelines regarding CA. In some modules (e.g. Project) where CA forms the basis of most or all of the marks, a different procedure particular to that module will apply.

##### What if I miss a single CA?

CA not in-class based: It is understood that a student may, on occasion, be unable to submit assigned work by the due date, due to illness, bereavement or other unplanned event. A student may then apply for an extension of time to submit his/her work, normally for one week only, or by a date specified by the relevant lecturer. If an approved extension is not obtained, late work will be subject to a penalty (5% per working day). Full details of this policy are available (file: ca_procedure_AC.pdf text:here.)

CA is in-class assessment: If you can provide a doctor's cert for your absence, I will provide a mark for that CA that is the average of all your other assessments. However, this can only be provided on one occasion for a single CA. For example, should you provide doctor's certs for all but one piece of assessment, then that would provide a poor reflection of your ability in those CA that you missed.

Alternatively, you may choose to complete the make-up CA outlined below and use that mark in place of your absent CA.

##### What if I miss an in-class CA and don't have a Doctor's cert?

In this case, your mark for that CA will _not_ be averaged across other CA. To cover such situations, I will offer (where time permits, and at my discretion), towards the end of the semester, a separate piece of CA (a 'make-up' CA) for you to complete. This CA will be substantial and its content will test your knowledge of all learning outcomes for the module. It will be completed outside of class contact hours. You will typically be required to present your work in person and be interviewed on your understanding of the work. If an interview is requested and you fail to attend for that, then no marks will be awarded for the make-up CA.

##### How does the 'Make-up' CA affect my overall marks?

Your mark in the 'make-up' CA will be used to substitute for only one missed piece of in-class CA. Where you have missed more than one in-class CA, I will substitute your 'make-up' CA mark for that CA which attracts the highest weighting.

##### **So if I have done all CA, I can still avail of the 'Make-up' CA?**

No. The 'make-up' CA is available should you _not_ have attempted one of the earlier pieces of CA.

##### Group Assignments

Generally, for groupwork, I give the same mark to each member of the team. In other words, I regard the contribution of each member to the final product to be equal shares.
However, it sometimes arises that some member(s) of a team do not contribute an equal share and that the mark awarded to the product should be reflected differently in each member's awarded mark.
If this is the case and you feel your efforts have unfairly benefitted others or you feel the mark is less because of the lack of contribution of other team members, then this is my policy.
The first step in reconciling the mark is for the team members to convene a meeting and frankly discuss the share of work each is felt to have contributed. This should result in an agreed percentage for each member. For example, a group of A,B and C could result in an agreed contribution percentage of 40%, 40% and 20% - reflecting the below-par input of C.
If such an agreement cannot be secured promptly, then I will convene the meeting and chair a discussion to establish with reference to the product submitted with a view to arriving at the percentages share-up mentioned above.
I would be hopeful that this last step would be unnecessary and that individuals would honestly represent themselves and their effective contribution.
My over-riding concern is that fair-play is ensured and if that ultimately requires my involvement, then I am happy to oblige.
Finally,  You are also expected to be informed of the college policy on (link: blog/plagiarism text:plagiarism).